---
layout: post
title: "Some Assembly Required"
date: 2014-02-10 20:00:00 -0800
author: Tim
categories: laser
---
When manufacturers show these machines on their websites, they never seem to
show all the ancillary components that are necessary for a fully functional
machine. These nice compact machines expand rapidly as the air blowers, water
chillers and air filtration systems are added.

## Installing the Laser Tube

The laser tube mounts along the back side of the enclosure. It's covered by a
long lid that protects it and keeps all that infrared radiation contained.
There are some lower adjustable "yokes" for the tube to sit in and another
"yoke" that clamps over the top of the tube with a long bolt that can be
tightened down onto some plastic shims. Kind of an interesting looking setup,
but we'll see how it works.

![Top yoke](/assets/top_yoke.jpg){:width="60%"}

You can clearly see the plastic adjustment screw on the bottom yoke. There is
one on each side to allow for adjustment both laterally and vertically.

![Bottom yoke and adjustment screws](/assets/bottom_yoke.png){:width="60%"}

The tube is longer than the enclosure so there is a hole in the side where the
end of the tube sticks out, and an extra cover that bolts on to protect it.
Another one of those things they don't show on the product webpage.

![Tube Cover](/assets/tube_cover.jpg){:width="60%"}

The high voltage wiring is attached in a strange way. There are two little
protruding leads coming out of the tube, and the instructions say to simply
wrap the wire around them and put silicone over them. I'm not sure about the
longevity of that solution but time will tell.

## Venting

The ventilation system consists of a blower motor with a 6" inlet and 4"
outlet, along with some blue plastic flex duct. We bolted the blower to the
wall next to the window and made a vent with a damper to blow the air outside.

![Blower](/assets/blower.jpg){:width="60%"}

The first issue with the blower was that it leaked, a lot. Here's a picture
showing in red all the places where air was blowing freely. The thickness of
the line represents the amount of airflow. Thicker lines == more leaking.

![Leaky Blower](/assets/leaky.jpg){:width="60%"}

So, yeah. Anywhere two pieces of metal were connected together there was a
leak. I tried sealing up all the cracks with caulk, but I couldn't get rid of
all leaks. Not super helpful when trying to remove nasty smelling bits of
vaporized material. We're going to need an air filter of some sort to fix that.

## Water Chiller and Air Pump

We mounted a shelf up on the wall above where the machine would sit so we could
put the water chiller and air pump up off the ground. The water chiller is
pretty hefty and holds about three gallons of distiller water. Its purpose is
to pump water through the laser tube and take away the heat produced by the
laser.

![Water chiller](/assets/chiller.jpg){:width="60%"}

It makes a couple ear piercing beeps when first turned on, followed by a steady
hum as the pump does its thing.  There is a flow meter inside the laser
enclosure which won't allow the laser to fire unless there is water flowing
through the tube. Nice feature.  The air pump is used to blow a stream of air
through the tip of focus lens housing to keep particles off the lens and
probably to blow out any small flash fires that might pop up.

![Air Pump](/assets/pump.jpg){:width="60%"}

## Fire Extinguisher

Get one!! The laser is a death ray of heat vaporizing material as it passes, so
a fire extinguisher is an absolute must. I found a pretty inexpensive halotron
extinguisher on
[Amazon.com](http://www.amazon.com/Buckeye-Halotron-Extinguisher-Aluminum-Capacity/dp/B009WUGSVY/ref=sr_1_13?ie=UTF8&qid=1391832743&sr=8-13&keywords=halotron+fire+extinguisher)
that doesn't leave any powdery reside when it's used.

![Fire extinguisher](/assets/extinguisher.jpg){:width="60%"}

## All Together Now

Getting closer to being able to actually burn something! Next up is the laser
alignment.

![Final Setup](/assets/final_setup.jpg){:width="60%"}
