---
layout: post
title: "Frickin Lasers"
date: 2014-02-02 08:21:00 -0800
author: Tim
categories: laser
---

My friend Steve and I come up with a new business idea pretty much
every time we start talking about all the amazing technology in the world
today. I'm an ASIC designer and all around hacker who loves to build
everything. Steve is an IT professional with more amazing completed side
projects than any person I've ever known. Between the two of us it always feels
like there is no limit to what we can do. I think most people would agree that
ideas are easy but execution is very hard. Most of our ideas don't have enough
momentum to make us jump into execution mode, but some do.

One of those ideas was to purchase a laser engraving machine and start cutting
things for personal projects and for-profit projects. The number of potential
projects that came to mind was enormous. There are so many things that can be
made with a laser cutter. Steve had spare investment money and I had the space
in my garage so we decided to go for it.  

## Choosing a Machine

There are a great number of companies out there that make laser
cutting/engraving machines. Our short list of potential machine manufacturers
came down to:

* [Epilog](http://epiloglaser.com)
* [Full Spectrum Laser](http://fslaser.com)
* [MornTech](http://www.morntechusa.com)

Epilog and Full Spectrum are USA based companies that seem to have very
well-made products. They are, of course, much more expensive because you do
have to pay for good quality. MornTech lasers are Chinese designed and built
systems, which usually means to expect a "kit" that will require some effort to
get working. At up to 1/4 of the cost of a similarly equipped US made machine,
the MornTech systems are an attractive option.

Given the fact that Steve and are both hackers and willing to put in effort to
create a working solution, we opted for the MornTech MTL-570 Laser Engraving
Machine which is a 60 watt machine with a 20"x28" cutting table. The cost was a
touch under $6000 and included a bunch of extra items that would normally need
to be purchased separately.

## Machine Arrival

First things first. Make room in the garage. This is the side of the garage
where I intended the laser to go since there is a conveniently placed window
for ventilation. What a mess! My CNC Sherline Mill is visible in the far right
of the picture. Fantastic little machine!

![Messy Garage](/assets/garage.jpg){:width="60%"}

The machine was supposed to arrive on a Thursday, but after some major
communication issues between us and the freight companies involved in the
delivery process, the machine arrived on the following Tuesday. A large UPS
truck carrying a single crate pulled up at the house. For some reason UPS
wasn't the only delivery company involved in the process. The package changed
hands at least once and sat in a warehouse in Portland for quite a few days
before actually being delivered. The ability to track it was nonexistent until
it was in the possession of UPS.

![UPS Dropoff](/assets/ups.jpg){:width="60%"}

The crate was big enough that the UPS guy had a little trouble getting it on
the lift gate. I thought for sure he was going to drop it off the back of the
truck. As you can see it was partially hanging off the edge. Eek!

![UPS Dropoff](/assets/ups2.jpg){:width="60%"}

Using two pallet jacks, one pushing one pulling, we managed to get it into the
garage. For some reason the UPS guy didn't want the second pallet jack and
asked if I wanted to keep it. Absolutely! So now I have a pallet jack to go
with my large pallet. I imagine I'll be able to sell it when I'm done. =)

![UPS Dropoff](/assets/pallet_jack.jpg){:width="60%"}

The instruction manual mentioned removing screws to get the crate apart, but I
didn't see any screws, so I got out a hammer and pry bar and started pulling
the thing apart. A day or so later when Steve came over he noticed that there
were some long screws at the very bottom which seemed to hold the entire top of
the box to the pallet.  By that time I had it mostly torn apart. I must have
been too anxious and didn't look closely enough.

Tip: Unscrew the large screws at the bottom part of the crate and lift the box apart.

![Unboxing](/assets/unboxing.jpg){:width="60%"}

All of the accessories were in boxes surrounding the machine, and the feet of
the machine itself were screwed into the base of the pallet. The cardboard box
seen in the picture above contains the water chiller. A myriad of hoses and
tubes were laying in the corner of the crate. One of the 6" blue vent tubes is
peeking over the chiller box. Things looked to be in decent shape with no
noticeable damage.

The item I was most concerned would be damaged on the long boat ride from China
was the laser tube itself. Luckily it survived.

![Laser Tube](/assets/laser_tube_in_box.jpg){:width="60%"}

Here's a shot of Steve holding the laser tube for scale. Pretty frickn' big
laser! It's a pretty intricate piece of workmanship. I have to believe that a
robot manufactured it, given that it has two semi-isolated chambers inside the
main tube. The outer inner tube carries water, which helps remove heat created
by firing a hot laser. The innermost tube must contain the gas that creates the
laser beam. Very cool piece of technology. The machine provides 30,000V to the
tube to actually create the laser beam.

![Steve for Size](/assets/steve_for_size.jpg){:width="60%"}

Next up is assembly!
